Modify rule S2083(Python): Update text to Education Framework structure (APPSEC-200) (#1329)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S2083/python/how-to-fix-it/flask.adoc

=== How to fix it in Flask

:canonicalization_function: `send_from_directory`
include::../../common/fix/code-rationale.adoc[]

==== Non-compliant code example

[source,python,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
@app.route('/example')
def example():
    my_file = request.args['my_file']
    return send_file("static/%s" % my_file, as_attachment=True) # Noncompliant
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,python,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
@app.route('/example')
def example():
    my_file = request.args['my_file']
    return send_from_directory('static', my_file)
----

=== How does this work?

> include::../../common/fix/how-does-this-work.adoc[]

Reviewer: This renders the following content:

> The universal way to prevent path injection is to validate paths constructed from untrusted data.
> 
> The validation should be done as follow:
> 
> Resolve the canonical path of the file by using methods like `send_from_directory`. This will resolve relative path or path components like ../ and removes any ambiguity regarding the file’s location.
> 
> Check that the canonical path is within the directory where the file should be located.
> 
> Ensure the target directory path ends with a forward slash to prevent partial path traversal, for example, /base/dirmalicious starts with /base/dir but does not start with /base/dir/.

It's incorrect because:
- `send_from_directory` doesn't resolve the canonical path.
- it already checks that the sent file is within the specified directory

This part should simply explain that `send_from_directory` will restrict the file path to a specific folder and therefore it will prevent path traversal from happening.

=== How to fix it in Flask

The following code is vulnerable to path injection as it is constructing a path
using untrusted data. +
This path is then used without validation to return a file.

Therefore, it can be leveraged by an attacker to delete arbitrary files.

==== Non-compliant code example

[source,python,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
from flask import Flask, request, send_from_directory

app = Flask('example')

@app.route('/example')
def example():
    my_file = request.args['my_file']
    return send_file("static/%s" % my_file, as_attachment=True) # Noncompliant
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,python,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
from flask import Flask, request, send_from_directory

app = Flask('example')

@app.route('/example')
def example():
    my_file = request.args['my_file']
    return send_from_directory('static', my_file)
----

=== How does this work?

The universal way to prevent path injection is to validate paths constructed

> from untrusted data. 

Reviewer: To me, it's a bit strange to start by explaining that the universal way to fix the vuln is to validate the constructed path. No validation is required when using `send_from_directory`, devs just uses a safe-by-design API. Only at the end of the section, do users understand that the validation happens "Behind the scenes". I find it hard to reconnect with this introduction sentence.

Author: ```suggestion
:auto_canonicalization_function: send_from_directory

The universal method to prevent path injection is to validate paths created
from untrusted data. This can be done either manually or automatically,
depending on whether the library includes a data sanitization feature and the
required function.

Here, {auto_canonicalization_function} can be considered a secure-by-design API.
```

> :auto_canonicalization_function: `send_from_directory`

Author: ```suggestion
:auto_canonicalization_function: send_from_directory
```
